---
layout: post
title: "Fleeting Feelings"
date: 2016-10-15T09:15:00-05:00
---

This week has been a whirlwind of emotions going through my mind. I have been stressed to no end about work, how far behind I am and each day I get farther and farther behind. Though I say that, I am 2 weeks ahead of the business' schedule, yet in my mind that's too few with a project that will take at least 10 months. I would like to have at least 4 weeks of lee-way to give myself and my team some time to work through the bugs that we haven't encountered yet and the verification of the business rules that I have yet to obtain due to the delays with getting licensing and a testing environment from the vendors that we are working with. My portion of the team has already completed a proof of concept for our end with some dummy information that we obtained from consultants from the vendor's end, but we're still unsure on so many level on what else needs to be done. The infrastructure side of things have still been difficult due to how the network and security is set up, we're unable to properly run our integration tests on the development environment so there's this weird hack that we decided on doing until we have that resolved. We run our integration tests on our integration environment's database hitting the new development environment endpoints. Ahh, it's a frustration since we don't know if there are any infrastructure related issues from endpoint to database calls. Overall, it's only a slight frustration since we can still develop, but we can't say that we've finished our work until all of that is handled.

Aside from work, I have a roommate that's moving out fairly soon. It's saddening, since he's probably one of the better people that I've interacted with in my life in terms of openness and mental fortitude. But it's also nice since I'm not a people person and interacting with him made me very wary of how terrible I am with people. I don't know exactly how I feel about the move since I'm the one that's been pushing him, though only subtly, to follow his passion and dreams so that he's a little bit happier and less complacent. Being his roommate has been a great benefit, at least for me, in terms of becoming a better person. We talked almost everyday that he was at home, allowing me to build on top of my interpersonal relationship skills, but also fun to finally have someone that enjoyed a lot of the events and things I also enjoyed. There were e-sport events that he and I would go to and have a blast, where as before I would go on my own. While fun, would have been better with more friends. There are more things that I would like to talk about him, on both the greats and the things he needs to work on, but maybe for another time.

I also, recently, broke up with my first-ish girlfriend. We both dated about a year ago for about 3 months, since I was only in the area for those months. Unfortunately, I had to move back home at the end and we decided that the long distance relationship wasn't going to work out. After a year of pondering and trying to move on, I learned that I loved her a lot more than I originally thought. So I asked her out again at the beginning of last summmer to see if we can work out the long distance issues. Shannon was and is still a fantastic person from the beginning to end. No matter what happened in each other's lives we were very open and willing to talk to each other about the greats and the problems that we had. One of the problems for the both of us was our depression. Interestingly enough her's was more of the incapabilities to begin something because she thought there was no purpose behind what she was doing. On my end, I wanted to finish things before I took the time to let the depression sink in. With distractions throughout the day from work, video games, and watching TV/Movies, I thought I was doing fairly well. It only seemed that way, but I just pushed those problems until the end, when I was on my bed and let the introspection began. Shannon and I talked about it with each other, trying to figure out an objective answer to a very subjective problem. Unfortunately, with the time-zone differences, trying to coordinate when we could talk, worsened our mental state since we weren't making any progress with finding a solution to our problems and, instead, dumped each of our problems on top of what we each were already dealing. I visited her a few weekends ago to go adventuring and figure out if things could still work if we were physically close enough to each other. The decision was fairly clear towards the end of the trip. While we had a lot of fun together, it seemed that the relationship wasn't going to work out in the long term. Our ideology on the relationship was the same; we needed to be able to work with each other's daily greats and problems and not just focus on the adventurous or romatic side of the relationship. It was hard and we both wanted time to think about it, but we inevitably decided to break up. We're still going to be great friends that are going to help each other with our problems and share all the fun stuff in our lives, but we won't be so intimate with it anymore.

As I stated previously, I've been depressed for a long time. With all of the above things happening so quickly and strung together my mental state has not been the best. I have been alone for the most part of this week, trying to find answers to problems that people far smarter and experienced that I have been trying to crack for decades. There has been many points throughout the week where I've thought of ending my life because I don't think the progress I've made in becoming a better person in the world has been significant enough. At the same time, ending my life would solve no problem, my contribution to the community I am currently in wouldn't change for the better; if anything it would be worse. I go through these ups and downs within the day, trying to be grateful for the people in my life that has been helping me out, without them knowing how important their actions towards me has been. If I didn't have such great people in my life, I don't think I would be here anymore. I want to be a better person to reciprocate this importance to them, but I'm still struggling on how to do that. For now I'll try to live day to day for them, with the intent that they should know that they're far more important to me than I originally express.