---
layout: post
title: "Scatter, Brain"
date: 2016-11-26T00:30:00-06:00
---

My brain has been jumping from one difficult thought to another without finding a conclusion on any of them. It's a daily struggle trying to find an answer to any of them, even if they're not entirely correct. I'm losing grasp on what I thought I was good at, finding a foothold in problems to jump off of. Now those problems, while possible to solve, is not mine to solve anymore. Coming to terms with that idea is something new for me. Problems around me could always be solved by me. Whether or not I was the person to actually solve the problem, I was the one knowing what the right steps to take to get there. It sounds arrogant.

Let's take it one problem statement at a time. First off, the decision on what I want to work on. Do I want to be a full-stack developer, mastering a few and being a jack of all trades; be a development maanager, and eventually rise the ranks to become a CTO; be a software architect, a guru of efficacy and viability. Do I even want to stay within the tech industry? Simply put, yes. I want to stay in the technology industry for 3 major reasons. The most important one, everyone and everything is evolving with technology. It is our version of evolution. Being a part of and contributing towards that ambitious goal is such satisfying experience that no other job has given me. The inconsequential creations and tinkering gives me a sort of creative freedom with purpose and with little consequences. There's so many jobs out there that directly affect the well-being of a person, sometimes leading to internal crisises when those people connect with you on a personal level. Your decisions start to affect everyone else's lives. I can handle that to a degree, but not as much as a surgeon or any of the like. Lastly, money. The purpose of any job. As this industry grows to an unknown level, the flow of finances will grow along with it. We currently see it now as people get transtitioned out of their positions to succumb to their new robot-overlords. The cost of people within the company goes down, but the profitability goes up.

What kind of person should I be within the industry? I want to be the one who has a deep wisdom in the issues with business requirements and software development necessities; has ideas to start an implementation of a new system, welcomes fresh ideas; nurtures the growth of their peers and in turn the business. This should fall into all categories of being within software development, but where I work there's an interesting mindset at each level. We'll stick with an extremely simplified approach, the developer, the lead/manager, the president/CTO. The leads and managers are in a quarrel within themselves. Not being able to decide on which team owns what, adding a huge complexity in the technical side for implementation of the system in multiple places. Involving developers in office politics that only stresses the developers out rather than encouraging them by praising their peers in confidence. The president and CTO, let all of this happen while letting business drive the platform with little to no knowledge of application development. Their roles became strictly administrative, instead of inspirational. These are the highest echelon within the company, yet their either ignorant or, unfortunately, willing to make their IT arm be whipped around by a development cycle that doesn't cater to a customer, but what someone thinks the customer wants. Developers are stupidly afraid of their higher-ups. It doesn't matter where it stems from, the solution is for the leads and managers to understand their underlings fears and curiosities and act upon them. There's no simple answer to solving any of that, and if there was it would have to go through each person at each level for the solution to see fruition. First off, customer driven development. Not business. Sure, the customer doesn't know exactly what they need, but they know what they're lacking and what would make their lives a little easier. From there, business analysts can correlation customer requests and understand the base necessities, and begin working towards those ideas. Development teams and arms are difficult to manage at a large company, and directing who owns what when everything is tightly intertwined creates a lot of headache. Either two things has to happen: Large broader designed teams, or smaller well and strictly defined teams. I prefer smaller teams due to simpler redundancy within the team, but also less overhead on agile management.

That was just work. The biggest struggle will always be my emotions. I can never keep them in check, or at the very least not obtrusive. Day to day, I can't handle it. The thoughts of loving people overflow and sometimes gets to the point of being clingy. Thoughts of suicide are still present, wanting to end everything at every turn so I wouldn't have to deal with the problem. Thoughts on my wellbeing, if what I'm doing for others are good and right. I want to become a better person, but I'm lacking a strong feedback loop on each and everything I'm doing. I need to move towards an internal source of feedback rather than external factors, though I question if that's important. So what if I think what I'm doing is good, if it's not good for the person I'm doing it for? It's hard to justify what I'm doing when I don't know how well it would affect the other person. I keep doing those things, because I should. The complacency from not doing those will be infinitely worse for me than rejection of an action. The suicidal thoughts are just that, thoughts. I'll have to keep them in check with someone else, just in case.

Loving others. Now that's a difficult idea. I was born and raised with the catholic ideology of loving others unconditionally. I would love to be able to do that. Yes, I do love those around me in that manner. I love them because they deserve it as one of the most basic human necessities. Though sometimes it's one the harderst things to do. When it's too difficult to look at someone in the eye and tell them the truth. When you get rejected by someone. When they've stabbed you in the back. When you're afraid of what they can do to you. Do you still love them? Can you still love them? Yes it will require time and coming to accept that you are both flawed and have wronged each other, but you should still love them. We should rather be stabbed in the back, thrown aside, neglected; than to never be able to love properly. The pain and anguish from it all is, first off, temporary and more importantly, a reality check. A check on you, to show you that you can and do love and care for others; for others to show you that they are still working through the same problems as you; to make sure you keep loving them. No matter what happens.

I've rambled on for long enough. I'll discuss more on the next one.