---
layout: post
title: "Waning Purpose"
date: 2016-03-23T21:00:00-06:00
---

Recently, I have had a lot of issues on having the *motivation* to continue doing things. Even this blog thing that I so dearly wanted to do every week has succumb to this issue on waiting for the right time to work on. Every week, I open up my editor and begin writing what I have been feeling at that moment. After some (very short) period of time, there's this apathy that consumes me, bringing these tasks to their knees into their eventual procrastination. It has been a difficult journey to overcome this and every apathetic time, but I eventually get over them.

I am still learning. Learning how I work, how I act, how to *motivate* myself, how I want others to perceive me, how to be a person. I mentally took a break from trying to understand how I worked, and began to learn about a small portion of anthropology and a tad of psychology to begin to understand, even a small amount, how people interacted and became better. First off, people love doing the same things, even if they say they don't. They wake up; have breakfast; get ready for our day; do their daily things, most likely work; get back home; do their nightly things usually mingling, watching TV, browsing the internet, playing video games; get ready for bed; sleep; repeat. I did trivialize the system, but I am looking at how people work at a high level, I do not need to know the exact events that happened that day. This is what I call the **Basic Day**. It is basic, because it is our template and the individual fills in the vague gaps with what their hearts desire. This is where everything happens. Those gaps that we fill in are the rituals that we create and call habits. Simple, yet if we are creatures capable and strive on adaptation, why are we stopping and using this cyclical, repetitive, and stagnant system? In my opinion, our ability to find the purpose in events both new and old is waning.

This ability to root our actions into this purpose is important to both inhibit and promote change. However, the society we live today has given us the quality of living that removes that insight to our purpose. The innate instinct to survive is mostly gone, making it difficult to understand what to do for our next highest instinct, producing the best offspring to continue our future selves. We lose that idea that we have to work for that survival, so we start loosening the grasp on working for and towards something.

*Motivation* is the cornerstone to tighten our grasp on that purpose, but that's all it is. Incomplete, yet ready to be built upon. The cyclical basic day that we have is ourselves building on top of the cornerstone to make this construct that is you. Add more good to those habits, learn how you create those habits through failure. Remove habits that loosen the grasp on your purpose. Use motivation to start a foundation. Use repetition to finish the construct.
