---
layout: post
title: "Empathy"
date: 2017-03-10T08:30:00-06:00
---

This is Part 2 of 10 of going through some idealistic modern virtues within my life, more specifically for that week.

March 9th. This date has the most significance in my life at the moment of writing this post. It started 6 years ago, talking with one of my closest relatives about the stages we were at in life and where we were heading towards. We discussed the materialistic side; both of us were very heavily invested in stocks, futures, and forex markets; what the next markets were to target and the possible outcomes due to current resource strains, (geo)political strifes, business ideals; the entire spectrum to just to benefit ourselves, to grow our already seemingly unlimited capital, to satisfy that greed. We spent hours tearing apart each other's ideas, encouraging the exciting ones, and ultimately finding all the perspectives we needed to see before we made our decision. It took most of the night to come to a decision, but we decided to think things on our own and follow up that weekend. That follow up never came.

I woke up on 2011.03.10 at 3am Central Standard Time, to a policeman standing at my front porch giving me one of the hardest news to take. That the relative closest to me had passed. Not by some health concern, natural causes, but by an accident of irrational thoughts and behaviours of another under the influence. I didn't know how to take it, but shock was at the beginning. They were there to keep my rampant brain from becoming too unbearable; to make each other's life more exciting and elaborate; to guide each other in both the realistic and the ideal of the world. I blamed myself for what happened. They would have continued be here if our materialistic greed wasn't so strong; if we just stopped a few moments earlier; if I didn't want so much from them.

Now it was all gone. After a single moment.

After several years, a lot of contemplation, I let it define me. Though define me in the best possible way. I learned that everyone has, is, and will go through some hardships; from the little day to day work shenanigans to the deep cuts of losing someone close. Figuring out what else what I could do for those people, but I knew couldn't help everyone. I had to divert those idealistic efforts from a global mindset to a more realistic community oriented mindset. Hoping that through my actions those within my community would do the same. Share the compassion with others, empathize that everyone goes through both great things in life and difficult. That they could make sure that people never felt as alone as I did back then.

This is what I do now. I give my everything for those around me. I want to make sure they're going to be taken care of before, during, and after those great highs and the difficult lows; to celebrate the little and big wins; to comfort and sympathize the lows; to love at every moment. I want them to know that no matter what happens in their lives or mine, that I will not let them feel as alone as I did.