---
layout: post
title: "Resilience"
date: 2017-03-05T23:30:00-06:00
---

This is Part 1 of 10 of going through some idealistic modern virtues within my life, more specifically for that week.

This week has been rough in more ways than it should have; the emotional unknown that I deal with has been overruling a majority of my logical thoughts which lay the foundation of my life. Struggling through this is wholly understandable; the idea of trying to fit the subjective system of emotions into my rigid box of objective logical truth is an entirely crazy idea that many others, far more experienced and intelligent than I am, have tried, succeeded in some ways, but ultimately have failed. While I am different from those people and have my own set of skills, experiences, it doesn't entirely mean that I can come to a conclusion on these emotions. This might become more of a stream of consciousness than anything coherent, though I don't know how understandable my previous posts have been.

The week starts on Mondays for me. Coming back from a much needed relaxing weekend filled with friends, dancing, and cleaning, made the beginning of the week much harder to get better. I definitely was willing to try. The first blow was explicitly hearing and learning first hand that there were people in my life that flat out didn't enjoy being with me. I considered some of them to be some of my closest friends, primarily for their ability and willingness to deal with my prodding questions, also for their willingness to be open with me on how they do feel in an honest way. Learning all of that wasn't an immediate pain, but more of a bomb waiting to happen. I'm not the kind of person that would get affected by something like that, at least without thinking things thoroughly and figuring out what I can work on so that these things will happen less often in the future. As time went on throughout the week, I learned to appreciate their company a little more since I missed having those kinds of people to interact with. The feeling of loneliness wormed and settled deep within me.

Within the week, I had to go through several interviews. Both being the interviewer and the interviewee. The ones where I was the one being interviewed went very well. My cerebral side is able to come up with the most logical answers for each of the "difficult" interview questions. Questions varied from the simple, "How would you handle X" to the more convoluted "How would you find or create opportunities given whatever circumstance"; all of them difficult on their own, but on top of that there was the social aspect that I needed to understand. I grew afraid and weary of not having the right answers for that interviewer given his and the company's circumstances. Through that I started losing sight on my skills and abilities that I am known for. Consistent clarity.

Being the one that interviewed others afterwards was interesting, but ultimately boring on my end. While I do get to learn something about who they are as a person, their skillsets, and what their potentials are, I gain little from the interview process aside from another fantastic person. This isn't to belittle their worth within the company, but more about the interview process. It's akin to a slow torturous box that we like to try to fit people into just to see if they have the skillset to do "what the company needs them to do" but I fail to see what the point of that is. The results that a company should have and be able to display is entirely a by-product of a person being able to do what they love and having an environment that encourages that. Instead of trying to fit people into a box, we should make a box that they'll enjoy being in.

Several social situations made it very difficult for me to function in a positive way. Friday nights are our dance studio's practice party, to enjoy and celebrate the end of the week and to obviously practice those cool new dance moves that we got to learn throughout the week. However, these past few weeks have been with a crowd at least three times larger, within the same size dance floor, with new and familiar faces, and with people of varying skills. In everything that I do, the end result is always the same: To leave both sides satisfied. Given the circumstances on Friday, my inability to handle social situations properly, with what happened on Monday making me adverse to closeness with those I was, gave me worst possible feeling. Failure in the most unsatisfying way. It crippled my ability to dance properly, even with the friends and teachers that I normally dance with. I couldn't remember what steps to take, what moves to do; I miscounted the beats and danced improperly when I was able to. As the night went on I just felt worse and worse, I didn't know exactly what I needed to do to stop thinking that way. So I just continued dancing.

I've come to the conclusion that I would rather have these hardships and move forward than to not have any opportunity to grow, becoming resilient to those hardships. Resilience so that when it happens again, it doesn't hurt as much.

This is really all I can do.