---
layout: post
title: "Improvement"
date: 2017-02-22T23:30:00-06:00
---

These past couple of weeks have been very exciting. Learning a lot about myself and what others think of me and what I'm capable of doing. Trying to see that potential within myself is difficult since I can't easily understand why I'm good what people say I'm good at. Often, I find myself lacking in those specific fields, regardless of what my professional stance is within that field. Taking work for example, I used to be a Software Engineer that wants and is able to create magnificently architected pieces of infrastructure that would hold against the test of time. I was ecstatic when I was able to work on a new project or to upgrade an old system to a new one. Trying find new paths and avenues to take on the creative side of programming. Then I was asked to take a more serious leadership role, making decisions for more people on multiple projects that span multiple products.

That role was given to me because of the accolades that I accumulated throughout the time within the company. From the ability to look and try from many perspectives to be excited that one work while many failed; from working long hours for that version to work for the upcoming demo to being playful with my co-workers and give them a sense of comraderie; from building the majestic castle floating on top of the clouds to improving legacy systems. A lot of my direct bosses were impressed with my work and attitude towards problems that they all praised me to many levels. However, for the longest time I didn't understand why they thought that way. Every moment of each day, I struggled to work harder because the systems I built weren't perfect; the plan I had for the project wasn't working out and had to scrap things altogether; the team wasn't always excited about being around me. I focused quite a lot on how bad things were, while my direct superiors saw the huge benefits that I was providing without being asked to do so. I took the position primarily to understand their perspective, to be able to prove them correct on their positive analysis of my abilities. Throughout that time I slowly gained an understanding on where they were coming from. I started seeing the improvements within myself rather than just the things that need improving.

This understanding furthered quickly these past couple of months, though on a social/personal level than a professional level. I started to focus a portion of that insight towards understanding how I worked with my friends and start getting their perspective on how I was to them. Talking with each of them was as insightful as it was joyous. Often I thought that they weren't happy being around me since they always seemed happy regardless of my presence; I thought I wasn't great company since I was unable to hold a conversation properly; I thought our friendship was deteriorating because it wasn't improving as quickly as I anticipated. They all proved my thoughts completely wrong, even gave me some feedback on how I was improving.

I'm slowly becoming more comfortable with this new understanding. There will always be things to improve upon. Just remember that the shoulders of giants that you stand on, are sometimes your own.